If we're gonna build a house,
a craftsperson needs their tools, right?
So I'm gonna go through here,
I'm going to basically talk a little
about what I'm going to be using,
and make some recommendations to you
of good tools, I think, to start with.
That being said,
if you have tools that you already like or
that you want to use,
I will try to bet as best as I can,
with my knowledge, accommodate all
the tools that I have knowledge of.
That being said,
if you're gonna be used tools that are
esoteric then you are on your own [LAUGH].
So, I am using macOS today,
if you can't tell.
I will do my best to try and
explain Windows as well.
That's quite funny,
cuz I work at Microsoft and
I do not use Windows [LAUGH].
So, I will do my best,
specifically with bash and windows,
it gets really sketchy really quickly,
so we will work through it together.
I think is the answer to that question,
anyway, we'll get there.
If you're on Linux, I have a little
bit more knowledge there of.
And what's nice about using Linux it's
it's pretty similar to Mac anyway, so
if you're using Linux,
you should be able to follow along more or
less with what I'm doing.
Also, I expect if you're using Linux
that you already have some of that
pre existing knowledge anyway.
So asking the developer
about their tools is
like the giant mistake because
they will rant to you for
hours about why they are right and
why everyone else is using terrible tools.
I don't know why we felt this need to
validate ourselves, I'm using this tool
and you have to use it too, or you have
to use this as well or you're an idiot.
I don't know, some dumb stuff like that.
And everyone's trying to use
like the latest shiny stuff,
just find tools that work for you.
If something works for you and speaks
to you, then just go with that, right?
And that's awesome, and I really encourage
you to go down that, you don't have to use
what's new, you don't have to use what's
shiny, just use what works for you.
And be open minded, right?
Do try new tools and
see if they do work for you.
And if you find yourself
fighting your tools,
then you should question your tools.
That's the other thing as well.
A little bit of investment in making sure
that you have the best tools will go
a long way.
So you should always be kind of
thinking about, how can I improve this.
Okay.
The first thing is we're gonna be
building websites you need to choose what
browser you're going to use.
I'm using Firefox I'm a huge Mozilla fan
just in general with their mission and
how they're going about making
the web a better place.
So I will be using Firefox you
are definitely welcome to use Chrome.
I think most people will
probably use Chrome.
And that's okay too.
Both of them are world-class
browsers that have
great developer tools as
well as Safari and Edge.
I don't know as much about Opera,
[LAUGH] but definitely in this class I can
speak really well to Edge Safari, Chrome
and Firefox and I will be using Firefox.
If you are using Safari,
if that's what you're liking to use.
I have this link here for you,
make sure you enable the developer
tools that's quite important.
[LAUGH] Everything else they're
just enabled by default, yeah.
Safari you have to actually go
check the boxes, I'm a developer,
please show me the developer tools.
Questions about that?
Yeah,
>> Do you use Developer Edition at all
Firefox or just a regular.
>> At work I actually use Nightly
which is even more bleeding edge
one than the Developer Edition.
Today I'm just gonna be
using the normal one.
I don't actually really know
the difference between all that,
there's like four different
versions of Firefox.
It used to make a difference because
the Nightly Developer one was so
far ahead they had made so
many changes to it.
But as of maybe six months ago,
they kind of merged that all together and
now just the stable one is really great.
Cool, good question.
Anyone else?
Okay, the editor.
So this is the tool that you're going
to be using to write code actually.
There are many many options and
this is probably
the most contentious thing that you can
ask someone is what editor do you use?
Cuz everyone has an opinion and
they're all terrible [LAUGH].
I personally use Visual Studio Code.
This is no surprise,
cuz I do work at Microsoft and
I work closely with
the Visual Studio Code team.
That being said, it is a fantastic editor.
I'm a huge fan of it.
I was actually using this before
I even worked at LinkedIn.
I used this when I was working at Netflix,
so
this is actually an opinion I held
before I started working at Microsoft.
The biggest thing that gave me pause
about Visual Studio code when I was
thinking about trying it is, I used to
use Visual Studio when I was in college.
And it is a huge just like it's
a big program, it's very heavy.
It takes a lot of resources.
It's for writing, c++ and
serious programming and things like that.
And so I didn't wanna get back into that.
But it turns out Visual Studio code,
like the only thing that it really
shares with that is the name.
It's completely different.
It's written totally different.
It's a different code base.
It's written in TypeScript,
which is a flavor of JavaScript.
It's totally different from Visual Studio.
So I have a link on here.
If you wanna download it.
Highly recommend it.
I'm a big fan.
I would say beginner friendly as well,
which is another reason
that I recommend it to you.
And there's a huge amount of
plugins available for it as well.
So if you have something that you want
it to do, someone's probably written
a plugin to help you do that as well,
which is really cool.
And the plugins are written in JavaScript,
so if you have an idea of something
that you want your editor to do, you can
write the code yourself after this, right?
Because you'll have the tool of
JavaScript that you'll be able to use.
If you're not feeling that,
feel free to use Sublime Text 3,
that's what I used for
a decade [LAUGH], so
I'm also very very familiar with Sublime,
it is a great tool, it's very fast.
That's what I liked about it, it opens
files really quickly, it's very efficient.
And there is Adam which I
have not spent any time with.
But there are people that do love it.
It's written by GitHub.
Sublime Text is written by just
a guy that now he has two or
three employees threaten,
working with them as well.
Atom and Visual Studio Code are 100% free.
There's, not even like a premium tier.
It's just a free tool, right?
Sublime Text 3 is free to download and
it's forever in trial mode,
it has a trial that never expires.
So I think once you buy,
I think it's $80 if I remember correctly,
and then it'll just stop
showing an annoying pop up.
That's all, whenever you start
up the tool, it's worth paying.
For me like I spent enough time
looking at my editor, I've paid for
sublime several times over and I probably
should pay them more because they
bought me a decade of productivity,
which is worth something I suppose.
If you want something more Visual
Studio-esque, something a little bit more
like Eclipse or NetBeans or something like
that, there's a tool called WebStorm.
I have not used it either.
But it's a more complete suite of tools,
I would say.
I'm not gonna speak a lot more to it but
it is not free you'd have to pay for
it but the people that do use it,
swear by it.
So Feel free to check
out WebStorm as well.
Lastly, I'm going to state
that these tools exist and
that you should not use them [LAUGH]
Unless you already use them.
There's a tool called vim, and
there's a tool called Emacs.
These are command line tools,
they're very difficult to use.
There's someone far smarter than I am.
And also, you will know everyone that uses
them because they will tell you right,
away that they use these things.
I'm not upset, I'm not.
I'm so sick of hearing about them.
So anyway they exist,
I'm gonna tell you, don't use them.
Because the people that are already
using them are gonna say screw you,
I'm not gonna keep using them.
And then everyone else hopefully will
listen to me and not use them so.
Any questions about that?
I bet you there is someone in
chat freaking out about this.
Yep, knew it.
[LAUGH] They're great tools, they just
have a super steep learning curve.
And that's not what you want to do today.
You already have a mountain ahead of you.
>> Actually, most people are saying
that BIM was a nightmare and
a rabbit hole to go down.
Not the other way around.
>> Yeah.
>> People are not defending it, for
saying that there was
a lot of wasted time.
>> The people that I talk,
I'm sure people going to contradict me.
But the people that I've talked to about
is like it was a giant time suck and
I kind of regret doing it.
But now that I've done it,
I am going to continue doing it right.
That's more or
less the sentiment about it.
It's, it's really interesting to watch
someone that's like a wizard of Emacs,
like a Nina zakharchenko, the one of
the other front of masters teachers that I
used to work with, actually and
now work with again.
She's a wizard with Emacs.
It's really crazy to watch the stuff
that she can do super quickly or
like the vim masters like Ryan Florence,
like they just fly, right?
I don't want to do that, I don't care.
I don't wanna spend too much time.
[LAUGH] So Yes, you should.
That's another thing is like,
tackle one mountain at a time, right?
Like, don't try and
learn an editor at the same time
as you're doing, learning to code.
Any other questions?
Or assertions that vim is terrible,
I'm listening.
Okay, the terminal.
So there's two things that I'm
kind of separating out here.
There's the shell and the emulator, and
hopefully I can kind of
explain the difference to you.
So I'll just bring up my terminal here.
Terminal looks like this, right?
I'm sure most of you seen this,
it's a little scary for
new people a breach approaching code
like this is the matrix, right?
It's actually just like a really
fancy File Explorer, or
maybe it's a less fancy File Explorer.
Let's go with that.
Like this, right?
Like you click on something, and
like you click on here,
it's the same thing with here.
So I would just go to like,
applications, right?
And I can see what's inside of
the application, which is nothing,
that's was CD talks, right?
And you can see like,
what's in there, like, okay,
I wanna go into web dev, right?
You can see what's in there.
We're going to spend an entire
section on that, but
that's what the terminal is right.
So the emulator is actually like the
window that you're running this thing in.
So that would be in this case, I'm running
it in something called iTerm, you do,
it really doesn't
actually matter too much.
There's one built into Mac called
terminal.app looks like this.
And you can see here it is the same thing,
right?
So, that's what I'm
trying to say here is it
doesn't really matter what
emulator that you use.
So if you don't have anything installed,
just go ahead and use terminal.app.
It's actually I'm told it's the fastest,
by far.
[LAUGH] The reason why
I continue using iTerm,
is it does this thing where I can actually
have two shells next to each other, and
that's just really useful to me, so.
So that is the emulator,
it does not matter,
so just pick one and go with it.
So I'm using iTerm2 today.
And the default Mac or
terminal.app one is great.
There's another one called hyper, which is
like the hipster one to use at the moment.
It is written in JavaScript which is
pretty cool, the last time I used it,
it was really slow so
I just got sick of it went back iTerm.
But I'm sure untold it's
gotten better since then.
So feel free to use hyper
if you are on Windows,
I'm told that HyperX also works
really well for Windows, and
there's one called CMDER,
I don't know anything about it.
So use that at your own risk.
If you're on Linux, I would just suggest
use whatever the one that Linux came with,
whatever your flavor of Linux came with.
With in other words, I have no idea.
[LAUGH] So any one of these
totally fine does not matter.
For the shells that's actually like
what the code that's running inside
the emulator, right, so
you have iTerm and then iTerm is
running something inside of it right?
That's called the shell.
And it does matter which shell
you're using, use bash please today.
If you're using something else,
you are on your own and
I do not know how to work in z,
sh or any of the other ones.
Actually I quite like fish
which is another one but
we are not using it because no
one else uses fish besides me.
So we're using using fish, okay, cool.
So fish is cool, anyway, just use bash.
We're using bash today.
And the reason being is that
everytime that you Google something,
the answer is always written in bash,
100% of the time.
No one writes in anything
else besides bash.
So that's a really good reason to use
bash, it's ubiquitous everywhere.
Okay, so, that's you terminal tool.
We will get much more into that probably
more towards the end of tomorrow.
Lastly, just like you should be really
careful where you get your news from,
you should also be really careful what
developer resources you are looking at,
when you are Googling things.
And so I wanted to give you
a few that I trust personally.
That whenever I'm googling something,
these are the first resources that
I see if they have anything on it.
So, my favorite developer resource
of all time that I love and
I literally have it open all the time,
like,
I'm not exaggerating is literally
always open on my laptop is the MDN.
It used to stand for
Mozilla Developer Network and
now it's actually they've just
said it now it's called MDN.
It doesn't stand for anything more,
it's just called MDN.
It's from Mozilla,
it's at developer.mozilla.org.
And it is just it's the Bible, right?
It's like it's everything about,
web programming in one spot.
So if I have a question about, let's say,
h1s, you just click here and
it just has it's complete,
so it's going to have everything on here.
So, but it's also approachable,
which is kind of rare.
It's either something is complete and
complicated usually, or
it's not complete and simple.
And they kind of strike
a good balance here.
So MDN is just the best, anything that
you can always trust something that's
on the MDN So yeah, great, great resource.
There's another one out there called
w3schools that usually comes up
before the MDN.
And I would suggest that you skip
w3schools and go to the MDN.
I am a huge fan of CSS tricks.
This is specifically very helpful for
CSS and HTML.
But they also have really good
JavaScript resources as well.
And they also have amazing articles,
just in generals like a publication.
But they have here, like Flexbox,
because that's usually what it is.
So, like for example, we're going to
be learning about flex later today.
And they had this amazing resource of
like, how to do flex really well and
it has like diagrams and
it's really, really well written.
So for learning about CSS in HTML,
I definitely suggest CSS tricks.
For video content, there's a website
called Frontend Masters, it's okay.
I give it like a 4 out of 10.
I'm just kidding,
it's great, I like it a lot.
I recommend a ton of resources in here,
not because they pay me to or
anything like that.
I mean, they could.
You could.
[LAUGH] But because I legitimately
think it's awesome content,
like I've watched a bunch
of stuff on there myself,
the kind of teachers that
they get are really great.
So, if it's on Frontend Masters,
you can pretty well guarantee
it's gonna be good stuff.
It's worth watching.
Lastly, if I'm working like
with a library or framework or
some like specific piece of technology,
it's usually a good idea to go directly
to the documentation to read it.
So if I'm working with like react, I'll
usually go to the react documentation.
And it's good to prefer those because the
developers will tend to keep those things
up to date, whereas like
a Stack Overflow answer might be date.
So, that's a good thing
to keep in mind as well.
And that being also,
I don't have on here, but
Stack Overflow actually usually is
a pretty good resource as well.
Because usually, like,
even as things progress,
people will re answer questions and
then upload them and things like that.
So, Stack Overflow is also a good
place to get questions answered.
Frontend Masters does this really cool
thing called the Frontend Handbook.
It's written by this
guy named Cody Lindley.
He's a really smart guy.
And it's just kind of like a huge
overview of like the entire typography of
the Frontend development world.
And it's just great.
There's, it's super exhaustive,
like they go over a bunch of stuff.
It's, yeah, it's great.
So it's also good to just kind of peruse
and go through and see what's in there.
And it's free like,
which is awesome as well.
Cool.
Any questions about any of
the tools that I've proposed?
>> VS code also has
terminal built into it.
>> That's a good point.
In fact, that's great point.
If you go into VS code,
do I have VS code open here?
So this is VS code.
This is what it looks like.
And I think it's control Tilda, yeah,
it brings up this terminal
down here in the bottom.
And you can actually use the terminal
directly built into VS code as well.
So, good point.
>> Yeah, I was asking if
we needed to download bash.
>> Which is a great question.
Do we need to download bash?
The answer to that question is no,
because, every operating
system should already have bash
installed including Mac Linux and
even windows 10 now actually does have it.
If you are using Windows 10,
There are these steps right here,
that if you click on it, it'll take
you to a link on the Microsoft docs,
so it will take you to how
to enable it for Windows 10.
If you're on anything before windows 10,
you are out, unfortunately out of luck.
[LAUGH] So the only thing here
that you should have to actually
download is whatever editor you're using,
I imagine most of you
probably already have a browser
that you're comfortable with.
But if not, then download
the browser that you want as well.
Otherwise, everything should
already be on your computer